Single SignOn with OIDC Auth0

In the context of the OIDCconformant authentication pipeline, single signon SSO must happen at the authorization server i.e., Auth0 rather than the application, which means that you must employ Universal Login and redirect users to the login page. To learn more, read Universal Login and Single SignOn. Auth01

At a general level, when performing SSO:

1. If the user is not logged in locally, you should redirect them to your Auth0 login page authorize for authentication using a redirectbased flow, such as the Authorization Code Flow or Implicit Flow, depending on the type of application. Auth01
2. If the user was already logged in through SSO, Auth0 will immediately authenticate them without needing to reenter credentials. Auth01

To determine whether users are logged in via SSO, use silent authentication, which either reauthenticates a user if they are already logged in or returns an error if they need to authenticate. In the legacy authentication pipeline, this could be achieved by using the ssodata endpoint, which is deprecated in the OIDCconformant pipeline. Auth01
Secrets Manager uses AWS Identity and Access Management IAM to secure access to secrets. IAM provides authentication and access control. Authentication verifies the identity of a requester using signin credentials such as passwords, access keys, and multifactor authentication MFA tokens. Access control ensures only authorized identities can perform operations on AWS Secrets Manager resources. Secrets Manager uses IAM policies to define which identities can access which secrets and what actions they can perform. AWS Documentation1

You can grant Secrets Manager permissions and control access in several ways:

 Secrets Manager administrator permissions: To grant administrator permissions, attach the SecretsManagerReadWrite and IAMFullAccess IAM policies. Granting full administrator permissions to end users is not recommended because broad permissions like IAMFullAccess are not appropriate for most users. AWS Documentation1
 Permissions to access secrets: Identitybased policies specify which IAM users, groups, or roles can perform actions on specific secrets. Resourcebased policies attached directly to a secret can also define who can access that secret. AWS Documentation1
 Permissions for Lambda rotation functions: For automated secret rotation, the Lambda function must have IAM permissions to access the secret and the service or database for which the secret contains credentials. AWS Documentation1
 Permissions for encryption keys: Secrets Manager uses AWS Key Management Service KMS to encrypt secrets. The default AWS managed key awssecretsmanager has the correct permissions. If you use a customermanaged KMS key, Secrets Manager must be granted permissions to use that key. AWS Documentation1
 Permissions for replication: You can control which identities are allowed to replicate secrets across AWS Regions using IAM policies. AWS Documentation1

Access control can also be refined using tagbased attributebased access control ABAC, where permissions are based on tags associated with identities and secrets. AWS Documentation2

Identitybased policies can be attached to IAM identities users, groups, roles to specify allowed actions on secrets such as reading values, listing secrets, or creating new secrets. AWS Documentation3

For crossaccount access, both a resource policy on the secret and appropriate identity permissions in the requesting account are required to allow access from a different AWS account. AWS Documentation4

Secrets Manager also supports access from onpremises environments using IAM Roles Anywhere to obtain temporary security credentials that follow IAM policies. AWS Documentation5

1: https:docs.aws.amazon.comsecretsmanagerlatestuserguideauth-and-access.html?utmsourcechatgpt.com Authentication and access control for AWS Secrets Manager - AWS Secrets Manager
2: https:docs.aws.amazon.comsecretsmanagerlatestuserguideauth-and-access-abac.html?utmsourcechatgpt.com Control access to secrets using attribute-based access control ABAC - AWS Secrets Manager
3: https:docs.aws.amazon.comsecretsmanagerlatestuserguideauth-and-accessiam-policies.html?utmsourcechatgpt.com Identity-based policies - AWS Secrets Manager
4: https:docs.aws.amazon.comsecretsmanagerlatestuserguideauth-and-accessexamplescross.html?utmsourcechatgpt.com Access AWS Secrets Manager secrets from a different account - AWS Secrets Manager
5: https:docs.aws.amazon.comsecretsmanagerlatestuserguideauth-and-access-on-prem.html?utmsourcechatgpt.com Access secrets from an on-premises environment - AWS Secrets Manager
AWS IAM Identity Center is the AWS solution for connecting your workforce users to AWS managed applications such as Amazon Q Developer and Amazon Quick Suite and other AWS resources. You can connect your existing identity provider and synchronize users and groups from your directory, or create and manage your users directly in IAM Identity Center. You can then use IAM Identity Center for either or both of the following:

 User access to applications
 User access to AWS accounts AWS Documentation1

You dont need to change your current AWS account workflows to use IAM Identity Center for access to AWS managed applications. If youre using federation with IAM for AWS account access, your users can continue to access AWS accounts in the same way they always have, and you can continue to use your existing workflows to manage that access. AWS Documentation1

IAM Identity Center streamlines and simplifies workforce user access to applications or AWS accounts, or both, through the following key capabilities: AWS Documentation1

 Integration with AWS managed applications: AWS managed applications such as Amazon Q Developer and Amazon Redshift integrate with IAM Identity Center, which provides a common view of users and groups. AWS Documentation1
 Trusted identity propagation across applications: With trusted identity propagation, AWS managed applications can securely share a users identity with other AWS managed applications and authorize access to AWS resources based on the users identity. AWS Documentation1
 One place to assign permissions to multiple AWS accounts: IAM Identity Center provides a single place to assign permissions to groups of users in multiple AWS accounts based on common job functions or custom permissions. AWS Documentation1
 One point of federation to simplify user access to AWS: IAM Identity Center reduces administrative effort by providing one point of federation, so you only federate once and manage a single certificate when using a SAML2.0 identity provider. AWS Documentation1
 Userfriendly web portal access: The AWS access portal is a web portal that provides users with seamless access to all their assigned applications, AWS accounts, or both. AWS Documentation1

IAM Identity Center supports two deployment types: organization instances the recommended production configuration, deployed in the AWS Organizations management account to centrally manage user access across AWS and account instances bound to a single AWS account for isolated use cases. AWS Documentation1

On July26,2022, AWS Single SignOn was renamed to AWS IAM Identity Center. Legacy API namespaces and related CLI commands remain unchanged for backward compatibility. AWS Documentation1

1: https:docs.aws.amazon.comsinglesignonlatestuserguidewhat-is.html?utmsourcechatgpt.com What is IAM Identity Center? - AWS IAM Identity Center
OAuth application integration overview

This page provides an overview of OAuth application integration in Google Cloud.

You can use OAuth application integration to integrate your OAuthbased applications with Google Cloud. Federated users can use their identity provider IdP to sign in to the applications and access their Google Cloud products and data. OAuth application integration is a feature of Workforce Identity Federation. Google Cloud Documentation1

To use OAuth application integration, you must first create a workforce identity pool and provider. You can then register the OAuthbased application using OAuth 2.0. Applications must be registered in the organization where your workforce identity pool and provider are configured. Google Cloud Documentation1

Important: OAuth application integration works only with IdentityAware Proxy. Google Cloud Documentation1

OAuth application registration

To configure an application to access Google Cloud, you register the application with Google Cloud by creating OAuth client credentials. The credential contains a client secret. The application uses the access token to access the Google Cloud products and data. Google Cloud Documentation1

OAuth client and credential security risks and mitigations

You must secure access to the IAM APIs and the client ID and secret. If the client ID and secret is leaked, security issues can result. These issues include the following: Google Cloud Documentation1

 Impersonation: A malicious user with your client ID and secret can create an application that masquerades as your legitimate application. They can then gain unauthorized access to the user data and permissions that your application is entitled to, perform actions on the users behalf such as posting content, making API calls, or modifying user settings, or perform phishing attacks wherein the malicious user creates a fake login page that resembles the OAuth provider and tricks users into entering their credentials. Google Cloud Documentation1
 Reputational damage: A security breach can harm the reputation of your application and organization, causing users to lose trust. Google Cloud Documentation1

In the event of a breach, to mitigate these and other risks, assess the nature of the breach and do the following: Google Cloud Documentation1

 Ensure that only trusted users have IAM access to the OAuth client and credential API. Google Cloud Documentation1
 Rotate the client secret immediately, by rotating the client credential as follows: Google Cloud Documentation1

  1. Create a new client credential for the OAuth client.
  2. Disable the old client credential.
  3. Delete the old client credential. Google Cloud Documentation1
OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect protocols  Microsoft identity platform

Knowing about OAuth or OpenID Connect OIDC at the protocol level isnt required to use the Microsoft identity platform. However, youll encounter protocol terms and concepts as you use the identity platform to add authentication to your apps. Understanding some fundamentals can assist your integration and overall experience. Microsoft Learn1

Roles in OAuth 2.0 and OIDC

Four parties are generally involved in an OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect authentication and authorization exchange:

 Authorization server  The Microsoft identity platform acts as the authorization server also called an identity provider or IdP, securely handling the endusers information, access, and trust relationships. It issues security tokens that apps and APIs use to grant or deny access after a user signs in. Microsoft Learn1
 Client  The application requesting access to a protected resource. This can be a web app on a server, a singlepage app in a browser, or a web API calling another web API. Microsoft Learn1
 Resource owner  Usually the enduser whose data is being protected. They own the protected resource and can grant or deny access to it. Microsoft Learn1
 Resource server  Hosts or provides access to the resource owners data and relies on the authorization server to authenticate and authorize access based on tokens. Microsoft Learn1

Tokens

Bearer tokens are used in authentication and authorization flows to verify principals and grant access to protected resources. In the Microsoft identity platform, these tokens are formatted as JSON Web Tokens JWT. Microsoft Learn1

 Access tokens  Issued by the authorization server to a client application; used to access protected APIs. Microsoft Learn1
 ID tokens  Issued to the client to sign in users and obtain basic user information. Microsoft Learn1
 Refresh tokens  Used by clients to request new access and ID tokens from the authorization server. Microsoft Learn1

App Registration

To trust security tokens issued by the identity platform, your app must be registered in the Microsoft Entra admin center. Registration assigns values to the app, including:

 Application client ID  A unique identifier included in issued tokens. Microsoft Learn1
 Redirect URI  Used by the authorization server after completing interactions like signing in. Microsoft Learn1

Your apps registration also stores information about endpoints like authorization and token endpoints that your code uses to request tokens. Microsoft Learn1

Endpoints

The Microsoft identity platform implements standardscompliant OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect OIDC 1.0 endpoints that support the authentication and authorization flows. Examples include: Microsoft Learn1


Authorization endpoint  https:login.microsoftonline.comissueroauth2v2.0authorize
Token endpoint  https:login.microsoftonline.comissueroauth2v2.0token


The exact URL formats vary by application type, signin audience, and Azure cloud instance. Microsoft Learn1

Next Steps

To implement authentication flows for various application types, Microsoft recommends using the Microsoft Authentication Library MSAL rather than crafting raw HTTP calls. MSAL handles securely acquiring tokens and managing flows like authorization code, client credentials, onbehalfof, and OpenID Connect for user signin and single signon SSO. Microsoft Learn1
Build a Single Sign-On SSO integration  OpenID Connect

This guide teaches you how to integrate your federated SSO application with Okta, assuming you want to publish this app integration in the Okta Integration Network OIN. Okta Developer1

 Overview

Single Sign-On SSO enables end users to sign in to multiple applications with one set of credentials. Okta supports two SSO standards for integration: OpenID Connect OIDC preferred and SAML. Okta recommends using OIDC for new SSO integrations. Okta Developer1

After choosing a protocol, select a deployment model. Okta offers redirect or embedded authentication models. Redirect authentication uses the Okta Sign-In Widget and is generally the easiest and most secure way to integrate. Okta Developer1

 Build your integration

If your app hasnt implemented OIDC yet, review OAuth 2.0 and OpenID Connect fundamentals. For OIN-ready integrations:

1. Use the Authorization Code flow with client secrets.
2. Determine required scopes for your OIDC client.
3. Decide how your app stores customer client credentials.
4. Implement token validation logic.
5. Support automatic credential rotation.
6. Determine your sign-in redirect URIs.
7. Consider Okta API rate limits when building your integration. Okta Developer1

Okta uses a multi-tenant credential system for OIDC integrations: each customer org instance generates a unique set of client credentials that your app must track. Okta Developer1

 Determine the OAuth 2.0 flow to use

For web applications, Okta mandates the Authorization Code flow. SPAs and mobile apps must use a backend service to manage authentication securely. The OIN does not support direct authentication from SPAs or native apps; instead, use a backend to interact with Okta. Okta Developer1

For OIN integrations you must use the org authorization server not custom ones, and refresh tokens arent supported for OIN OIDC apps. Okta Developer1

 Token validation

To check access tokens, use the introspect endpoint to verify token status. For OIN integrations, access tokens require remote validation, while ID tokens can be validated locally. Okta Developer1

 Key rotation

Okta rotates signing keys regularly. Your OIDC client should periodically fetch the public keys keys endpoint used to verify token signatures and handle key changes gracefully. Okta Developer1

 Rate limits

Pay attention to Okta API rate limits and monitor headers like X-Rate-Limit-Limit, X-Rate-Limit-Remaining, and X-Rate-Limit-Reset in responses. Public metadata endpoints are not subject to rate limiting. Okta Developer1

---

 Create your integration in Okta

After building your app integration:

Submit an OIN integration:
Follow the OIN Wizard to add required artifacts, create a testing instance, verify SSO flows, and submit for verification and publication. Okta Developer1

Add a private integration:
Use the Admin Consoles App Integration Wizard to create a private app instance for your Okta org and test its SSO flows. Okta Developer1
Build a Single Sign-On SSO integration

This guide teaches you how to integrate your federated SSO application with Okta. This guide assumes that you intend to make this app integration public by publishing it in the Okta Integration Network OIN. developer.okta.com1

Learning outcome

Create and test an SSO app integration for OIN submission. developer.okta.com1

What you need

 Okta Integrator Free Plan org
 An app to integrate SSO with Okta developer.okta.com1

Overview

Single Sign-On SSO is an authentication method that enables end users to sign in to multiple applications with one set of credentials. If you have customers that use Okta as an Identity Provider, you want to publish your SSO app integration to the OIN so customers can easily configure SSO for your app. developer.okta.com1

To create an SSO integration for the OIN, first sign up for a free Integrator Free Plan org. Next, select the type of SSO protocol to implement. Okta supports two SSO standards for your integration: OpenID Connect OIDC preferred and Security Assertion Markup Language SAML. Okta recommends using OIDC for new SSO integrations. developer.okta.com1

Deployment models

After choosing a protocol, select a deployment model. Okta offers redirect authentication or embedded authentication deployment models. Redirect authentication uses the Okta Sign-In Widget and is the easiest, most secure way to integrate with Okta. Okta recommends the redirect authentication deployment model if your situation meets the requirements. developer.okta.com1

Build your integration

If you're unfamiliar with SAML 2.0, review SAML concept and Okta SAML FAQs first. developer.okta.com1

Use SAML toolkits to quickly build your SSO integration. These toolkits help you implement SAML 2.0 and create the Service Provider WebSSO profile. Example toolkits include:

 .NET: Sustainsys.Saml2
 Java: OpenSAML
 Python: PySAML2
 Ruby: Ruby-SAML

Okta does not own or maintain these toolkits. developer.okta.com1

Gather SAML attributes before creating an app integration instance in Okta. In a SAML integration, Okta is the Identity Provider IdP, and your app is the Service Provider SP. You should determine the default Assertion Consumer Service ACS URL for your integration the SP sign-in URL, find your audience URI or SP Entity ID, optionally set up a relay state page, and gather any required SAML attributes your app needs. Okta recommends keeping the number of SAML attributes minimal. SAML integrations must use SHA-256 encryption; if using SHA-1, upgrade to SHA-256. developer.okta.com1

Create your integration in Okta

This section assumes you already built the SSO integration in your app. Instructions for adding your integration into Okta vary depending on whether you want to provide a public or private integration. developer.okta.com1

Submit an OIN integration

If you want your integration in the Okta Integration Network, follow the OIN Wizard instructions to add required integration artifacts and metadata, create a test app integration instance, test SSO flows, and submit your integration for verification and publication. Creating a test instance does not automatically make it public; after testing, submit for verification. developer.okta.com1

Add a private integration

If you want the integration to exist only in your Okta org, use the Application Integration Wizard in the Admin Console to create an app integration instance and test your SSO flows. Once configured, your org users can access the app. Common use cases include testing in a private org or having advanced SAML features not supported by the OIN Wizard. developer.okta.com1

Next steps

To publish your integration, start the submission process to have your SSO integration included in the OIN by reviewing the publication overview and following the OIN Wizard for submission. developer.okta.com1
how to enable EntraID SSO on a github enterprise 169189

Hello
we have a github enterprise, because it needed to be in a european data residency it was created for us by the github support team
i am now trying to implement SSO on the enterprise, but i need to login with the setup user account, i have never created or received this
when the enterprise was created by the github support team, just got a invitation to become owner with and i used my reguler github account for that, i am listed as enterprise owner.
any idea of what i am missing? i cannot seem to find any reference to this setup user anywhere and i am unable to follow the steps provided with my owner account the settings are missing

---

Resolving Entra ID SSO Setup for GitHub Enterprise

Issue:
You're unable to configure Entra ID SSO because:

1. The enterprise was provisioned by GitHub Support EU data residency
2. You never received setup user credentials
3. Your owner account doesn't see the required settings

Step-by-Step Solution:

1. Verify Your Access
   Confirm you're logged into the GitHub account that's listed as Enterprise Owner
   Navigate to: https:github.comenterprisesYOUR-ENTERPRISE-NAMEhttps:github.comenterprisesYOUR-ENTERPRISE-NAME replace with your enterprise name

2. Required Permissions
   You need both:
    Enterprise Owner role in GitHub
    Global Admin in Entra ID Azure AD

3. Alternative Access Methods
   If settings are missing:
   Try accessing via direct URL:
   https:github.comenterprisesYOUR-ENTERPRISE-NAMEsettingssecurityhttps:github.comenterprisesYOUR-ENTERPRISE-NAMEsettingssecurity
   Use GitHub's API to check configuration:
   bash
   curl -H Authorization: Bearer YOURPAT https:api.github.comenterprisesYOUR-ENTERPRISE-NAMEhttps:api.github.comenterprisesYOUR-ENTERPRISE-NAME

4. Recover Setup User
   Since GitHub Support created the instance:
   Contact GitHub Support directly via:
   https:support.github.comcontacthttps:support.github.comcontact
   Reference your enterprise name and EU data residency request
   Request either:
   a The setup user credentials
   b Temporary elevation of your owner permissions
   c A reset of the SSO configuration portal

5. Temporary Workaround
   Ask GitHub Support to:
   

Post-Setup
Once SSO is enabled:
 Configure team synchronization: https:docs.github.comenenterprise-cloudlatestadminidentity-and-access-managementusing-enterprise-managed-users-for-iamabout-enterprise-managed-usershttps:docs.github.comenenterprise-cloudlatestadminidentity-and-access-managementusing-enterprise-managed-users-for-iamabout-enterprise-managed-users
Key Notes:
 The setup user is typically only used during initial configuration
 GitHub's EU-hosted enterprises sometimes have different provisioning workflows
 Enterprise Owners should normally have all required permissions  this appears to be a provisioning oversight

---

Hello, thanks for the response
i just saw that github support has sent me the setup admin users credentials, solving the issue,
thank you for your time

---

It's alright. I'm happy to help you
Question:
I have a website www.example.comhttp:www.example.com. I have a few clients businesses using my website, let's say they are C1 www.c1.comhttp:www.c1.com, C2 www.c2.comhttp:www.c2.com and C3 www.c3.comhttp:www.c3.com. I want to enable Okta SAML authentication for them so that whenever they come to my website, they can manage their identities through Okta. I already have Google and Microsoft OIDC integrated in my system, but I want to integrate SAML through Okta as well so that new clients who are already using Okta in their system can integrate with my app seamlessly. My application is in Java and infrastructure is hosted on AWS. What are the integration steps for Okta SAML integration? I went through their documentation but the process is still not clear to me. Also, as it's the first time I'm integrating with SAML, I'm not sure about these details. I went through the Okta documentation and even tried by putting dummy values for required fields just to see their positioning in my system but I am unable to get any luck out of this.

---

Answer:
You'd need a separate instance of your application for each of the clients, because to enable SAML SSO you have to exchange metadata with each of your clients, as well as have a separate user database for each of them if that matters for your app. I guess you need to also implement SAML response processing in your application to be able to verify it and figure out a user coming to your app. Those are two principal things to be done first, before you can move any further.

---

Comment on answer:
Is there any GitHub repository that can be referred for this? As I'm not sure about the steps you're mentioning. Stack Overflow1

---Understand the relationships between SSO, OAuth, OIDC, SAML, Okta

Im getting confused by those terminologies and how theyre related to others. Many articles on the internet dont agree on a single view whether those are categorized as protocols, standards or frameworks or even concepts. Some articles call OAuth a standard while some others call it a framework and none explains the differences between a protocol and a framework and a concept I think protocol means the same as standard.

Ive used some of them in application development but I still feel like Im a newbie in this area. I would appreciate if someone can simplify those terms.

---

A standard is anything which some authority like the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF has declared to be a standard. Thats it. Standards can specify protocols, algorithms, names and many other things. For example, you find a lot of IETF Internet Standards published through a Request for Comments RFC. OAuth 2.0 has been standardized in RFC 6749, so its clearly a standard. As the title The OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework already suggests, its also called a framework which is a rather vague term. In addition to that, the RFC refers to OAuth 2.0 as a protocol. So you could say its all at the same time: a standard by the IETF, a framework and a protocol.

A protocol is a formally defined set of rules which is meant to ensure that, for example, different network hosts can communicate with each other in an unambiguous manner. Without clearly specified protocols like IP, TCP or HTTP, we couldnt have this discussion because our devices would have no idea which data to transmit at which time to whom. If you read RFC 6749 for OAuth 2.0, you can find a lot of formal descriptions which tell implementers how exactly the messages look like and who is supposed to send which message in which order. This is crucial for the authentication to work because all involved parties have to agree on how to communicate. Not every protocol is a standard. For example, you could invent your own protocol right now, but as long as you dont convince a recognized authority like the IETF, it wont be a standard at least not a widely accepted one.

As I already said, framework isnt a clearly defined term. You could say its a generic solution which can be applied to different use cases. For example, in the case of OAuth, the standard explicitly allows custom extensions to define new grant types, access token types etc.

Regarding the relationships between SSO, OAuth, OIDC etc.:

 Single Sign-On is an abstract concept where a user authenticates at some central service and is then allowed to access multiple different systems. This description is of course far too vague for an actual software or hardware implementation, so you need concrete protocols to define the details.
 OAuth is an authorization protocol or framework which mostly specifies how the owner of a protected resource can allow a third party to access this resource without knowing the owners credentials the Resource Owner Password Credentials grant type deviates from this principle, but its largely considered obsolete.
 OpenID Connect is an authentication protocol built on top of OAuth which specifies how a user can authenticate at a service through a third-party identity provider like Google or Amazon. You can use OIDC to implement SSO. Unlike OAuth, OpenID Connect is standardized by the OpenID Foundation.
 SAML is a competing SSO implementation standardized by the Organization for the Advancement of Structured Information Standards OASIS. So its an alternative to OIDC.
 Okta is a company which also happens to be an OIDC provider.

---